<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
      xmlns:f="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/core"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">
   
<h:head>
	<title>Pet Instructions Page</title>
	<h:outputStylesheet library="css" name="petInstructions.css"/>
</h:head>

<h:body>
	
	<h:graphicImage library="images" name="logo.png" alt="Adam's Ark &amp; Avery" styleClass="heroLogo"/>
	<div class="sideBar">
    		<ul>
	    		<li><h:link value="Home" outcome="staff.xhtml"/></li>
	    		<li><h:link value="Calendar" outcome="viewFeeding.xhtml"/></li>
	    		<li><h:link value="viewPets" outcome="viewPets.xhtml"/></li>
	    		<li><A href="">Settings</A></li>
				<li><ui:include src="/WEB-INF/includes/logoutButton.xhtml"/></li>
	    	</ul>
    </div>
	<div class="instructions">
	<h1>Pet Instructions</h1>
		<p>Please select pet type</p>
		<h:form id="form">
			<h:messages id="msgs" />

		  <h:selectOneMenu id="petType" value="#{instructionsBean.petType}"
		                   required="true" requiredMessage="Pet type is required">
		    
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Dog" itemValue="Dog"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Cat" itemValue="Cat"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Bird" itemValue="Bird"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Reptile" itemValue="Reptile"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Exotic Pet" itemValue="Exotic"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Fish" itemValue="Fish"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Amphibian" itemValue="Amphibian"/>
		    <f:selectItem itemLabel="Small mammal" itemValue="Small"/>
		   
		    <f:ajax execute="@this" render="instructionsOutput msgs"/>
		  </h:selectOneMenu>

			
			<h1>1. Universal Visit Flow (every visit)</h1>
			<p><b>On arrival</b> <br />
				Wash/sanitize hands first and between species/enclosures.<br />	
				Count pets, confirm all present and safe.<br />
				Quick home scan: temperature, open windows, hazards, plants/chemicals, chewed cords.<br />
				Fresh water for all species.<br />
				<b>During visit</b><br />
				Feed per species below and Owner Notes.<br />
				Litter/spot clean, outdoor potty as applicable.<br />
				Enrichment/play/social time per species.<br />
				Medication per Owner Notes (verify dose/time, log immediately).<br />
				<b>Before leaving</b><br />	
				Final headcount; secure doors/gates/tanks/cages.<br />
				Lights/heaters/filters back on; timers correct.<br />
				Write the Daily Report (see template).</p>
			
			<h1>2. Species-Specific Care</h1>
			<h:outputText id="instructionsOutput" 
			              value="#{instructionsBean.instructions}" 
			              escape="false"/>
			       
			<h1>3. Cleaning and Sanitation</h1>
			<p>Separate tools by species (color-code if provided).<br />
				Food prep surfaces: wash, rinse, disinfect; air-dry.<br />		
				Litter/feces: seal in bags; place in [BIN LOCATION].<br />		
				Aquariums/terrariums: never use soap inside; use species-safe products only.<br />		
				Launder pet towels/blankets per Owner Notes or bag them for owner.</p>
				
			<h1>4. Medications</h1>
			<p>Pet: [NAME] • Drug: [NAME] • Dose: [X mg/ml] • Route: [PO/topical/otic/ophthalmic]<br />
				Timing: [AM/PM/WITH FOOD] • Special: [SHAKE/KEEP REFRIGERATED]<br />
				Two-person check if possible (read-back dose). Log immediately after giving.</p>
			
			<h1>5. Emergency Protocol</h1>
			<p>Assess: Is the pet in immediate danger? Secure others.<br />
				1. Contact: Call owner → if no answer in 2–3 minutes and it’s urgent, call emergency vet.<br />
				2. Stabilize: Keep warm/cool as appropriate, limit movement, stop bleeding with clean pressure, avoid feeding.<br />
				3. Transport: Use carrier/leash; bring meds list.<br />
				4. Document: Time line, observations, photos, what you did.</p>
			
			<h1>6. Daily Report Template</h1>
			<p>Date/Time in–out: [HH:MM–HH:MM]<br />
				Pets seen headcount: [NAMES] (all accounted for)	<br />
				Food/Water: [WHAT/HOW MUCH], appetite [GOOD/FAIR/REFUSED]	<br />			
				Bathroom/Litter: [NOTES—consistency, frequency]				<br />
				Enrichment/Walks/Play: [WHAT/ DURATION]	<br />			
				Meds given: [YES/NO—DETAILS]				<br />
				Cleaning done: [LITTER/BOWLS/SPOT CLEAN]<br />				
				Behavior/Health notes: [ANY RED FLAGS?]	<br />			
				Home status: [SECURED/ALARM SET/DELIVERIES INSIDE]	<br />			
				Photos: [ATTACHED Y/N]				<br />
				Next visit: [DATE/TIME]</p>
	</h:form>
	</div>
</h:body>
</html>